README.md, before:

# Streamer.Bot Linux Install Script

With this script you can easily install the latest version of [Streamer.bot](https://github.com/Streamerbot/Streamer.bot) on Linux.
It will create a command `streamer.bot` as well as a menu entry via `streamerbot.desktop`

currently tested distributions:
* Debian/Ubuntu based
* Arch based

If the prerequisites are installed already, this script should work on all distributions

# Usage

* Grab the install.sh script, either directly or via git clone.
* execute `./install.sh`

# Default Settings

## Paths
* `streamer.bot` will be installed below `~/.local/bin`
* uses `~/.local/lib/streamer.bot` for the program files
* uses `~/.local/lib/streamer.bot/pfx` for the wine prefix
* will created a desktop entry via `~/.local/share/applications/streamerbot.desktop`

Make sure `.local/bin` is in your $PATH, e.g. add .local/bin to your $PATH via `.profile` or `.bash_profile` file:
```bash
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
if [ -d "$HOME/.local/bin" ] ; then
    PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
fi
```
This script will try to add these lines if possible.

## Prerequisites

Linux (doh!), with a standard desktop environment, bash, awk, curl, wget, unzip

optional: `jq`

If the release will be obtained automatically from github `jq` is needed, which will be attempted to be installed automatically.
If an url or a local file of the release file is provided (see below), installation of `jq` can be skipped.

**mandatory**: `wine`

If not found, `wine` will be installed automatically from the repositories, maybe you want to install it manually before, as Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora will probably have outdated versions.

* Ubuntu: https://wiki.winehq.org/Ubuntu (winehq-staging package recommended)
* Debian: https://wiki.winehq.org/Debian
* Fedora: https://wiki.winehq.org/Fedora

Latest versions in rolling releases available:
* Arch: pacman -S wine
* openSuSE: zypper in wine

**mandatory**: winetricks
https://wiki.winehq.org/Winetricks
https://github.com/Winetricks/winetricks

* Arch: pacman -S winetricks
* openSuSE: zypper in winetricks

# Update

```bash
UPDATE=1 ./install.sh
```

If no other options are given, the script will grab the latest version from github and overwrite the existing files. Can be combined with specifying file location or URL (see below).

# Use local file or specific URL
To fetch a specific version of Streamer.bot:
```bash
VERSION=0.2.0 ./install.sh
```

If you downloaded Streamer.bot already (e.g. a beta), you can specify the `.zip` location:
```bash
FILE=$HOME/Downloads/Streamer.bot-0.1.3-preview4.zip ./install.sh
```

Alternatively you can also provide a specifc url
```bash
URL=https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/879546641051422750/881631757550632970/Streamer.bot-0.1.3-preview4.zip ./install.sh
```

# Manual install

If you would like to manually install Streamer.bot:
* create a fresh wine prefix, 32-bit (via WINEARCH=32) or 64-bit (default)
* via winetricks install dotnet472 dxvk and d3dcompiler_47 into that prefix
* run Streamer.bot with `WINEPREFIX=<prefix> wine Streamer.bot.exe >/dev/null 2>&1` within the path of the Streamer.bot.exe

# Uninstall

```bash
UNINSTALL=1 ./install.sh
```

# Troubleshooting

Winetricks takes a while to complete (several minutes). especially if it has to download from web.archive.org.
winetricks might get stuck, if you interrupt it with ctrl+c the script will try to end all remaining wine processes.
Try to uninstall (see above) and install from scratch again.

# Notes

Big thanks to [nate1280](https://github.com/nate1280/) who relentlessly works on Streamer.bot and adjusted it to work with wine.

Commit message:

Install script can handle quoted values in /etc/os-release. Updated README

README.md, after:

# Streamer.Bot Linux Install Script

⚠️ **Note:** This is a fork of the original Linux install script for Streamer.bot.
It includes ongoing fixes and features not present upstream and is maintained independently.
Use this version if you need improved Linux compatibility or additional options.

## Acknowledgements

Special thanks to [@bonaccolto90](https://github.com/bonaccolto90) for their contributions improving Linux and Proton support.

---

## Fixes

- Update Lutris script to use latest proton by default.
- Handle quoted values in `/etc/os-release`

With this script you can easily install the latest version of [Streamer.bot](https://github.com/Streamerbot/Streamer.bot) on Linux.
It will create a command `streamer.bot` as well as a menu entry via `streamerbot.desktop`

currently tested distributions:
* Debian/Ubuntu based
* Arch based

If the prerequisites are installed already, this script should work on all distributions

# Usage

* Grab the install.sh script, either directly or via git clone.
* execute `./install.sh`

# Default Settings

## Paths
* `streamer.bot` will be installed below `~/.local/bin`
* uses `~/.local/lib/streamer.bot` for the program files
* uses `~/.local/lib/streamer.bot/pfx` for the wine prefix
* will created a desktop entry via `~/.local/share/applications/streamerbot.desktop`

Make sure `.local/bin` is in your $PATH, e.g. add .local/bin to your $PATH via `.profile` or `.bash_profile` file:
```bash
# set PATH so it includes user's private bin if it exists
if [ -d "$HOME/.local/bin" ] ; then
    PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
fi
```
This script will try to add these lines if possible.

## Prerequisites

Linux (doh!), with a standard desktop environment, bash, awk, curl, wget, unzip

optional: `jq`

If the release will be obtained automatically from github `jq` is needed, which will be attempted to be installed automatically.
If an url or a local file of the release file is provided (see below), installation of `jq` can be skipped.

**mandatory**: `wine`

If not found, `wine` will be installed automatically from the repositories, maybe you want to install it manually before, as Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora will probably have outdated versions.

* Ubuntu: https://wiki.winehq.org/Ubuntu (winehq-staging package recommended)
* Debian: https://wiki.winehq.org/Debian
* Fedora: https://wiki.winehq.org/Fedora

Latest versions in rolling releases available:
* Arch: pacman -S wine
* openSuSE: zypper in wine

**mandatory**: winetricks
https://wiki.winehq.org/Winetricks
https://github.com/Winetricks/winetricks

* Arch: pacman -S winetricks
* openSuSE: zypper in winetricks

# Update

```bash
UPDATE=1 ./install.sh
```

If no other options are given, the script will grab the latest version from github and overwrite the existing files. Can be combined with specifying file location or URL (see below).

# Use local file or specific URL
To fetch a specific version of Streamer.bot:
```bash
VERSION=0.2.0 ./install.sh
```

If you downloaded Streamer.bot already (e.g. a beta), you can specify the `.zip` location:
```bash
FILE=$HOME/Downloads/Streamer.bot-0.1.3-preview4.zip ./install.sh
```

Alternatively you can also provide a specifc url
```bash
URL=https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/879546641051422750/881631757550632970/Streamer.bot-0.1.3-preview4.zip ./install.sh
```

# Manual install

If you would like to manually install Streamer.bot:
* create a fresh wine prefix, 32-bit (via WINEARCH=32) or 64-bit (default)
* via winetricks install dotnet472 dxvk and d3dcompiler_47 into that prefix
* run Streamer.bot with `WINEPREFIX=<prefix> wine Streamer.bot.exe >/dev/null 2>&1` within the path of the Streamer.bot.exe

# Uninstall

```bash
UNINSTALL=1 ./install.sh
```

# Troubleshooting

Winetricks takes a while to complete (several minutes). especially if it has to download from web.archive.org.
winetricks might get stuck, if you interrupt it with ctrl+c the script will try to end all remaining wine processes.
Try to uninstall (see above) and install from scratch again.

# Notes

Big thanks to [nate1280](https://github.com/nate1280/) who relentlessly works on Streamer.bot and adjusted it to work with wine.
